---
layout: post
title:  "Thunderstorms, a new friend and other small things"
date:   2023-08-07 20:31:00 +0200
author:  Matt
location: Home
categories: thoughts 
permalink: /Thunderstorms-new-friend-and-other-small-things
---

## The Spear and the Shield

Well this whole journaling thing took a bit of a turn for the worst, didn't it? I am surprised I managed to keep up at it for so long (well "so long"), but... no, there are no real excuses I can make for myself here. And lying in my journal feels particularly bad, so I'll just say how I felt: once again like in my first entry on this journal I have felt the unstoppable need to create something, a deep craving to be artsy, cool, introspective and all other cool words once can imagine. This need is balanced by an even greater force that binds me to my bed, doing nothing for a good part of these last few months. It's a lot like the story about the unstoppable force and immovable object. In my case being still is much easier and is something I am trying to overcome with various degrees of success. 

Let this first section serve as a reminder of me losing that battle against myself. What is worse is that every time this sort of stuff happens I come up with the wildest excuses to not do something: friends are going to see a movie? Well... I don't like driving, and I don't know where to park, the ticket is quite expensive, and after all the movie doesn't sound too interesting, and there are no clear plans, are we actually going to go? And... and.. and nothing. Once I convince myself that these are issues, these totally made up problems, or tangentially relevant problems, become so concrete and real that even tackling them seems impossible. 

And so day after day I sit on my bed, looking out of the window wondering why I feel unsatisfied with a life I am not trying to live.

Now, this all sounds tragic enough but am I doing something about it? Not really, or at least so I think. I have *attempted* to be more proactive, and do things but that does not really work. That is not entirely true, I have been hiking a lot this year (albeit not lately, as the high heat was a serious concern for my low blood pressure). What I really struggle with is doing stuff with other people. In the last few months I have attempted to set up a small holiday with friends, and we actually got quite far into the whole organizing process. We were looking for a place to sleep, which cars to use to get there, food and so on. The trip was basically done, or rather it *was* completely set up. Then tragedy: we waited a singular day to actually book everything. This singular day meant I was alone with my thoughts for over 8 hours, oh the horror. And then the usual song and dance started again: will we be able to book the room? What if it's a scam? Am I going to waste money? Can I afford this? Are the people actually interested? Are they just being nice to me? Am I going to enjoy this? What if I don't? What if they don't? What if I am annoying? What do I do then? No, I can't go. It's a bad idea. I will lose money, I will get scammed, I will be annoying, I will make everyone despise me, and many such thoughts. Maybe I overdid it with the description but I thought it was a good idea to actually include how my head works when stuff like this happens. Things go from doubts to unshakable truths of the universe. As I am typing this I am able to realize that they are not true but in those critical 16 hours they are the only thing I am certain of in my life. And so the next morning I come up with a bullshit excuse and say that I won't be able to go, but that they should enjoy themselves. And they will, but once again I am stuck watching people be alive rather than actually living. And it's only my fault. I am preventing myself from doing things and complaining afterwards. I tell myself that there's always next time, next time I will be there, I will wait to be alive for a little longer. I feel like there is so much to write about this, but it doesn't fit here thematically. I wanted this to be a great retelling of a positive experience not whatever this became.

## I am Alive

I usually am pretty critical of summer weather: the high temperatures make me sick, quite literally. My blood pressure gets so low I struggle walking, standing up and other fun activities that require being upright. Even going to work feels more tiring than an all day hike. However it feels good having a good experience despite all these issues.

I was talking online with a tourist, which from now on I will refer to as Z, that was on holiday here for a couple of days. As we were talking he just told me "You're close, come here so we can talk in person a bit". I was so surprised by this. It wasn't a question, but more of a statement: I was close, less than 5 minutes by car, and we were talking and having a good time so why not do it in person? It's the logical thing to do. There was no room for doubts either, the thoughts in my head were starting to form but I beat them not by willpower but by acting faster than they were able to. Before I could start to think stupid bullshit I was already in my car driving. Of course I was not fast enough to completely eradicate them, as while I was driving the first thought was: what am I doing? Why am I doing this? Now I can say that I did it because I wanted to do something with my life, that didn't involve looking at the same spot in the ceiling as the previous days. While I was dealing with these thoughts I decided to park really far away from where I was supposed to meet Z. I did this because the thought of having to bring a car in the middle of a busy tourist town made me sweat more than the 30°C at 21:00. As I finished a 15 minute walk it started to rain. At this point I am under a bridge, stuck because I don't have an umbrella waiting. I check the chat, he tells me to wait a few more minutes as there are some issues on his side. And the thoughts begin again: he's changed his mind. He tricked me and wanted to make fun of me. He's laughing at me while I wait for him for half an hour under a bridge. Luckily a couple of joggers saves me from spiraling down worse and worse thoughts. They are completely drenched and cold, they keep jogging on the spot to keep warm. We talk a bit, and laugh at the whole situation: three idiots stranded under a bridge with bright orange lights, waiting for the rain to stop. But of course the rain doesn't stop and keeps pouring down harder and harder. As I am starting to get desperate a text wakes me from my nightmare of thoughts. He's coming to get me, and he has an umbrella! Our idea of a walk by the beach has been canceled but we can talk in the room he's staying in. 

And so we did.

We talked for a few hours, about his life and mine. It was honestly amazing. No thoughts ruined the time we spent together, even if occasionally I could feel them forming, I could feel the questions starting to take form in my head: am I annoying? Is my accent too much? Can he understand me? Am I missing some sort of clue he's dropping? But he has finished his sentence and it's my turn to talk, so there's no time to think about that. He has told me my English is the best he's heard ever since he came here. Liar. But that's another bad thought knocked down. He's now told he is happy to talk in person, and so am I. I don't know if he could read my mind, or if the expression of horror in my face betrayed me but at every step of the conversation it was like he could tell what he needed to say to make me comfortable. Does everyone notice that as we talk? Are my negative thoughts really so apparent to everyone? I really hope not.

In any case, I feel like I need to say "Thank you Z", you're never reading this but you honestly did all you could to make me feel safe and appreciated.

From then on we kept talking. About homophobia, his experience being partially out for him, and my *exciting* experience being closeted. I think I only ever alluded to this topic on here, like I've never had the courage to explicitly say it but I like men, shocker I know. I don't know why I am even scared of typing it, here in the place I have created for myself, under a false name and with the sole purpose of writing my feelings. 
But that doesn't matter now because I'm in a room with a guy talking, and it's going well. But it's getting late, and his roommates are coming back. And so we hug and we scurry out trying to pretend not to know each other. As he welcomes back his roommates I walk past him, just a straight dude going down the stairs, what else could I be?

I am out now and it's still raining. I am happy. I start walking back towards my car, and I have a 15 minute walk on the seafront. I am getting soaked, and it's cold. 

But I am happy.

Every once in a while the clouds light up, as lightning paints them a beautiful gray, white and black color. The waves are crashing rhythmically against the rocks.

And I am happy. I feel alive. I am alive.

I am alone on the seafront, soaked, taking one of the best walks I've ever had in my life. I still have my head filled with all the words that were said in the past two hours, another lightning strikes in the middle of the sea, and once again the clouds show themselves for but an instant. I am free of my usual thoughts, there are no doubts, all I can feel are the waves, the rain tapping on my shirt, the drops of water dripping from my hair and the sound of thunder far away. All I can think is Z, and what we talked about, our struggles and our goals and ambitions.

Maybe I am giving too much importance to one night, but I don't care, it feels so good to be able to experience that. This was my first time opening up like that with a person face to face. They could see me and I could see them. We hugged and huddled under the umbrella together.

For a few hours I was truly alive. I am alive.

## Being myself, in public

After the amazing night I just described, Z decided it would be good to see each other again the following day, since it would be his last day here. Again he left no room for my thoughts to take control. Again I was told to just go and have a fun evening.

We spent a few hours on the beach, laying on a beach towel, looking at the sea and just talking again. This day was a day full of firsts for me: when I met him on the same seafront that on the night before had given me such happiness we hugged. Nothing weird there maybe, but we hugged. On the seafront. In a crowd. Two guys, hugging. And I am one of them. I honestly never thought I would be able to do something like that in my life. I know it sounds stupid as it's such a basic thing, but I really felt no shame in that moment. I was myself, I was happy, I was hugging a friend. I did not care about the people looking at us, I did not care about their thoughts or mine. I think of that moment often, wondering if I can do it again. Sometimes these moments feel like they have been achieved by a different person, and not by me. So I have started to collect proofs of this sort of stuff, like a picture or something like that. Something I can look at and say, yes, I truly did do this. I really had the strength to be myself in a crowd of people.

I must add that probably of the people that were there walking, not a single one cared about two random guys hugging, and most of them probably didn't even notice us. I know that. But at the same time I don't. My thoughts certainly don't. Usually even talking online with someone that lives nearby is enough to make me spiral into the worst conspiracy-theory level thoughts. But this time it did not happen. Why? Was I possessed? Is it because once again I acted before I could think? How do I repeat that? I feel like I've burned my one-time use ability to do that, and now every interaction I have is tainted by this cursed knowledge that I have to act faster than I can think. But my thoughts know that too now.

Going back to my time with Z, it was once again great. We laid there on the beach towel and just talked, about whatever we wanted. He talked about poker, I talked about hiking, we talked about euthanasia, having children and much more. Again I was comfortable being there, with my shirt with three buttons undone, because a friend told me it's slutty to do that and I want to be slutty too, laying down next to another man, looking at the sea and talking about whatever, in a language that no one near us could probably understand. This time I clearly saw a person looking at us. Even now, I remember their expression. I don't know what emotion they were feeling but I honestly did not care. I was myself then and no one could stop me. As I type this I am not able to maintain the same mindset, and dark thoughts start to gather in the back of my mind. They're really stupid thoughts so I won't even write them here.

As it got late we went to a restaurant and ordered some food, you know, like normal people do. We were sitting on a table, how unbelievable I know, as normal people, and once again I was myself. What a great feeling. 

We kept talking, and I ordered food for both of us, switching back and forth from my native language to English. My brain did not like that, a few times I ended up talking to the waiter in English. We ate and shared desserts.

It was soon time to go, he had to leave early in the morning so we couldn't be too late. Funnily enough the night ended the same way as the previous one. Once again I was walking on the seafront, looking at the sea and listening to the waves. This time however Z accompanied me. I think it's such a nice way to tie everything together.

At the end we exchanged one last hug, and he gave me a quick kiss on the cheek. Such a simple gesture, maybe he didn’t even consider all the implications it had for me, but still, if hugging another man in public was a first for me, getting a kiss was a first that I never imagined I’d accomplish. It was not only impossible but something to actively avoid. But that evening I did not hide. I was myself. I was alive again.

Just to people, enjoying an evening together. I am one of them.
