---
layout: post
title:  "On Devastating News and Being Hopeful"
date:   2023-06-10 22:41:00 +0200
author:  Matt
location: Home
categories: thoughts
permalink: /on-devastating-news-and-being-hopeful
---

How does one deal with hearing something so utterly terrible that it feels like getting pummeled in the stomach? Well, I do not deal with it in any way or form.

Yesterday a close friend told me about them getting ready to live the last part of their lives. And they were full of hope, full of positive thoughts and with a great outlook on all that was happening. And this is happening to them, not me. I on the other hand could barely keep it together. I mean, how can you even begin to process that. I got this news on an audio message, seven minutes long, their voice was cheerful throughout every second of it and the message was full of other fun and interesting topics. What did I do? I replied like I would any other audio message: after gathering my thoughts for a few minutes I just started talking, going through all the topics giving my thoughts on each. I even stumbled and talked a bit about the only topic that I could actually remember, ringing in my head like the bells that mark every hour passing. I fucked it up pretty badly. I don't know how to deal with this sort of stuff. What am I supposed to say? Sorry? For what? That does not make any sense. I understand? No shit. I understood that was a possibility a long time ago, but I just didn't want to actually believe it. So what am I supposed to say? I'm here for you? This sounds like the most insane option so far, but I've said that lots of times already even if it's completely meaningless. I can be there for someone but to what end? I live around 1250 kilometers from them, I'm definitely not *here* for anyone, and it's not like I can offer much via text other than some messages written by someone that barely knows what to say.

Look at me, making this all about myself. I'm not the one whose life is on the line and yet I can't shut up about how that makes **me** feel. That makes me actually quite angry at myself, but this is my journal so I guess I'll have to just accept talking about how I feel. Not that there's much else to do other than accepting how things are.

This whole situation hurts particularly bad, as to some degree I'll be dealing with it for the fifth time. The previous four have happened in a time where I really limited the amount of feelings I allowed myself to feel. In my family long illnesses like these are dealt in a peculiar way, they are shrouded in secrecy, where everyone can imagine what's happening but everyone pretends it's not. Everyone is smiling and happy all the time. If I wanted to get to know more about the situation I had to eavesdrop on conversation, rummage through medical documents when they were left unattended.

I still remember, when my grandmother was sick, waiting a minute outside the door of her house so I could enter smiling and being cheerful. This whole theater play was happening even if everyone knew what was happening. My mother had to live with her as she was no longer able to take care of herself, so it was pretty clear there was not going to be a happy ending. But everyone smiled and cracked jokes all the time. I understand the need for putting on a smile in situations like these, firstly because there's no point in doing anything else. Sure, the situation was doomed from the start but that does not mean one should feel despair the whole time. I understand that the point is to enjoy what we are able to enjoy, and that there's no point in doing anything else. But I felt insane. Like I was a clown trying to make everyone happy while everything else was burning down. In my mind I can rationalize how much it makes sense to make the most out of a shitty situation, but at the same time I cannot feel happy so I have to pretend I am. I think this is due to how I was living my life then, because while I was not happy I did not feel particularly sad either, despite how awful the situation was.

In the six years where I really lived my life forcing myself to not feel anything I can point out a single moment where I was not able to do that. I could point out the exact date, and even the hour. The day of my grandmother's funeral was the only time in those six years where I cried. Coincidentally it's also the last time I have cried. I remember it so clearly. I remember where I was sitting when it happened, I remember how it felt. Again I was trying really hard not to feel sad, but my throat was burning and I could feel my eyes tearing up. And then it happened. Without a sound, I just started crying. I didn't even close my eyes, the tears were just flowing down my face and I couldn't stop them. I remember reaching in my pockets to take out a tissue, because you see I had planned for this event too. Mechanically I took out a tissue and cleaned up my face. When that wasn't enough I took out another one and "finally" managed to shut everything down again.

After that I spent another three years shutting all my feelings down because that was easier to do than actually confronting them.

Why am I even telling all of this? Because this is not how I want to live this situation again, however it goes. First of all I won't shut down again. If there are moments where I need to cry I want to cry, if there are moments where I feel like I'm being punched in the stomach then I want to feel that. But most importantly I want to look ahead with a positive attitude. I think that this is different from the happy face I had to put on before because there's actual belief behind it. The main difference with that is that I want to accept all the emotions that are going to derive from this situation, rather than just forcing me to act like a crazy happy automata, but at the same time I want to appreciate what is there to be enjoyed. I will cherish every message I read, every photo I see, every audio message I listen to even more than what I already am. Just enjoy every interaction, every little thing for what it is.

I need to do this. There's no point in doing anything else. There really isn't. There's no point in looking at the future and beating myself up at the thoughts of what might happen. There's no point in bottling up every emotion, because why should I stop myself from feeling what essentially is life itself?

I sure am talking big in that paragraph, as someone that doesn't even know where to start. But I will do it, no matter what.
I won't have a fake smile on my face while I feel I'm insane thinking how happy everything is. I will actually appreciate what is there to be appreciated, and be grateful to actually have had the opportunity to experience what I did.
I don't know what the coming months will bring, how bad things will get, or if they will get better. Whatever happens I want to be there for them, and I want to enjoy all the little and big things that are going to happen. I owe them this, after all we've talked about and all they've taught me.
