---
layout: post
title:  "Angering the Mountain Spirit"
date:   2023-05-07 20:54:00 +0200
author:  Matt
location: Home
categories: hiking
permalink: /angering-the-mountain-spirit
---

A few days ago I finally went on another hike, after two weeks of crappy weather, a crappier lack of free time and an even crappier lack of motivation to do so. 
This was the 13th hike of the year, which pushed the total distance traveled since the start of 2023 just over 140 km. Considering my goal of hiking for 250 km this year I am starting to get pretty confident in my ability to actually do so. While I am certain my progress will slow down during the summer, where the heat will dry my good intentions and will lower my blood pressure to the point I won't be able to walk for more than a few kilometers. I'll come up with a solution to this problem once it becomes more clear, hiking at night in the dark sounds really nice, but on the other hand spraining my ankle doesn't sound too great.

About this particular hike, I've been planning it for a while. It's pretty long, just a little over 17 km, but what really makes it interesting is the difference in altitude of over 1000 meters. It leads to a nice, bucolic village located in a gorge on the other side of the mountain range. Once you are there you can take another path, that while not particularly well kept, takes you up another mountain to then get you back to the starting point.

## An unnecessarily long description of the plant life I encountered

What follows is, as the concise title suggests, some of the things I observed in the local plant life while hiking. It's late spring now, and with summer at the doors the warm air is filled with pollen, much to my demise, but the flowers are giving way to green leaves. Patches of deciduous trees in the distance, that were either a barren grayish brown, or dotted white from the flowers of wild plums, are now bright green, moving in the wind. Leaves that just sprouted have such a nice vibrant color, it's such a particular shade of green that makes me happy just thinking about it. The hazelnut trees that last time still had their weird droopy flower thing (which apparently are called catkins) are now full of clusters of leaves, just as their other deciduous counterparts.
The few linden trees I encountered are already looking as majestic as they do in summer. Their leaves are not that childish green I described before, but are an already more mature shade of green. In a few months I look forward to going under one and hearing the ominous buzzing of hundreds of bees working on the flowers.
And I cannot avoid talking a bit about the beautiful green tufts of tall grass. They're everywhere and they look so green and vibrant. This is a rare sight, as the weather quickly becomes way too hot, turning each blade of grass a nice brownish and golden color. While I do prefer the dried up look, looking at a plateau high up on the mountains where trees no longer grow shine green is a pretty blissful feeling.

Lastly, I need to talk a bit about Mediterranean plant life. The pine trees, as artsy as ever with their twisted and windswept look, have the tips of their branches covered in candles. If these were bonsai one would have to spend hours candling all of them, pinching it off so that it doesn't grow too wild. But most of these pines grow already in such a beautiful shape that human intervention would only ruin it.
The heather, which has been in bloom for a few weeks now, is starting to tone down, with the bell-like flowers becoming a duller and duller shade of white. While watching these plants in particular I noticed how susceptible they are to their environment: two plants a few meters from one another can be in completely different stages of their blooming stage: one can be already done with it while the other one still has to start, just because one had more light than the other. I am sure that this can be used as a *really* on the nose metaphor for how everyone deals with their life at their own pace, and how the environment that surrounds you influences said pace, but a digression like that does not fit in this journal page.

## Disrespecting the Mountain Spirit

I like to think I am a pretty rational person. A true man of science, an empirical being that is only interested in facts and data. I am not. Whenever I make a decision, even an important one, I do not do it based on what is best after a thorough analysis, but rather on what my first instinct was. I can pretend I do, often ruminating over all the possibilities for days, if not weeks. But deep down I already know what I'll pick, because I decided the moment I was presented with two possibilities.
I needed this introduction because I now have to tell you about my weird belief in mountain spirits, and how one should behave towards them. Just to clarify I do not believe that in each mountain resides a special supernatural being, like a guardian of some sorts, but for me it's more like an idea, like if the concept of the mountain itself has a personality and a set of rules one should follow. It's a bit like a synesthetic feeling, where the appearance, the experiences I've had and so on get translated into this personality of the mountain. I know I'm rambling on trying to explain an irrational thing, but I think that the concept of "mountain spirit" describes it quite well.
So while a mountain might evoke respect, a gorge covered in woods can instead be a more mischievous place, better suited to some naughtier business.

And I did get up to no good. It's not something I ever expected to be doing, especially since I did not want the mountain spirit to be upset with me. I don't know why I'm being so vague, but it feels like I'd be tainting this journal by going into details, so I'll just talk about how it made me feel.
Of course I did not do this out of the blue, but there was someone that put this whole thing in motion. It was stupid, a little dangerous, somewhat embarrassing and most of all really nice. It made me go out of my comfort zone, and forced me to look at myself, which is something I do not do at all. The fact that I was doing this for a friend gave me purpose for a day, a mission to accomplish and focus on. Looking back, as I type this all I can think is "did I really do that?", and apparently I did.

Getting back to the actual hike, leaving my embarrassment and the anger of the mountain spirit behind me I finally reached my destination. The rural village is composed of just a handful of houses. It smelled of freshly cut grass and the silence was broken from time to time by people talking or by the rumbling of an old tractor. As I strolled into the village I couldn't help but notice that the locals were all laughing at me, or more specific at the silly hat I was wearing. As I usually do in the summer I was wearing a really wide-brimmed hat, as it helps me avoid getting my nose and neck terribly sunburnt. Normally having someone look at me and laugh would deal a devastating blow to my mental health, and probably cause a panic attack, but in this case it actually makes me really happy seeing people laugh at the idiot in full hiking gear with a stupid hat looking around the place, like he's never seen a little village. I think that the reason behind me being so comfortable with this kind of stuff is due to the fact that I know people are laughing at the hat and not me, so I can laugh with them. As I write this I realize that maybe this isn't the healthiest thing, since I am using the hat as a scapegoat, while instead I should be comfortable being who I am regardless if people are laughing at me or not, but that is not going to happen anytime soon. 

The reason I wanted to do this hike is because I had already done it three years ago, during the first summer of the pandemic. The first time I arrived at the village I was pretty lost (in the literal sense), and the heat had dried up all the water springs where I had planned to refill my canteen. As a very dehydrated past me wanders in the village a kind old man sees me for the disaster I am and, after a nice chat, despite all of the current covid regulations refills my canteen and gives me some much needed directions. We did not talk about anything special, just where I was coming from and how the hike went, but it was nice seeing someone care about what I was doing. 
So this new trip was spurred on by my curiosity, I wanted to check up on him, see how he was doing. And I think he was doing just fine, he was in his workshop working on some stuff, I could hear him talking with someone in there. Of course I did not show myself, or talk with him or anything. He wouldn't remember a random lost hiker, but I will not forget him, his kindness and the nice words he had for me. Hopefully he can help some more lost hikers that wander in his backyard.

## Thoughts on changing, in a sea of forget-me-nots

At this point I am getting back from the village, I have climbed another mountain and I am exhausted. I am once again in the realm of the mountain spirit, and he must be pretty angry with me as I've tripped and fallen down twice, hurting myself pretty badly. As I limp on a green plateau I notice that my legs are not moving forward by much, even if I am asking them to. My hip is killing me and the knee I fell on hurts pretty bad. 

So I decided, or my body decided for me, to take a break. A pretty bad habit of mine when I hike is that I get so absorbed in the act of walking that I do not even appreciate what's around me. The same thing happens with everyday life: so focused on my routine I stop thinking. I am walking through life without looking at what surrounds me, without giving any room to my feelings. This journal is part of my effort to sit down and contemplate what is going on.

As I am forced to sit down I realize where I am: on a green plateau, overlooking both the village and the gorge. All around me are beautiful forget-me-nots. As I am sitting in such an idyllic place all that is left for me to do is to think a bit about what was going on with me. As I have stated a few times I am trying to change things in my life, or to be more precise, change how I behave and feel. But even when immersed in such nice scenery, even after all I accomplished even on that day alone, the only thing I could think of is: "I'll never change". And this was not something only my interior monologue was shouting at me, all my close friends, people I care about were telling me how I'll always be the same and nothing will ever change.

Maybe I was a bit demoralized since I was really exhausted, but still I don't like that I thought that, just like I didn't like earlier when I wrote that "that is not going to happen anytime soon". Are those things true? Maybe, probably even. Should I still think that? Probably not, I don't think it's really good for morale thinking that all I've been doing won't end up mattering. And things are definitely changing, and me disrespecting the mountain spirit is proof of that. I wish I realized this by myself but I didn't, a friend had to spoon-feed me this realization. I wonder how many more things are changing without me noticing, hopefully it's some huge number. But why can't I see what is going on? Why am I still the same person? Why is it that when I look into the future, trying to think at what will change for me, I can't picture anything different than what is currently going on? In truth I have no idea. Maybe I am blind to these changes because I am the one living them, bit by bit, and an outside observer has an easier time to actually notice them. But then how am I supposed to improve if I can't see what I'm doing?

In the end I was not able to come to any form of enlightenment during my time among the forget-me-nots. But I did enjoy my time, sitting there, watching the scenery. I enjoyed it even if my thoughts were screaming at me, because at least I was actually listening to them, so that's a start.

I saw an abandoned house in the valley, the roof has fallen down and there are no paths that lead to it, maybe I'll go there next and think some more.
