---
layout: post
title:  "Springs and Tension"
date:   2023-06-01 20:51:00 +0200
author:  Matt
location: Home
categories: thoughts
permalink: /springs-and-tension
---

It has been a while since I found the strength to write another entry. My goal with this journal was to write whenever I wanted, so I don't feel like I've not kept up some sort of promise, but at the same time it feels like I haven't doing what I set out to do. So these few lines will have to act as a self apology.

Now to the heart of the matter, what is going on? A lot and nothing at the same time. I would do bad news first and good ones after but they're all so mixed up I'll just write down whatever comes to mind. I think it will also be a good exercise in seeing both negative and positive sides of the same event, rather than focusing on just one. I will start talking about my hip, or femur or whatever it is that links my body to my right leg. It's not doing so good, it's actually pretty bad. Apparently some bits of my bone are grinding away at my hip, destroying it little by little. This would explain my issues when out hiking, where my hip would cause me so much pain I'd have to sit down and let it calm a bit, as I talked about in [Angering the Mountain Spirit](angering-the-mountain-spirit). The main issue with this is that this kind of deformity is supposed to be a congenital one, but when I was born I didn't have it, and haven't had it for over 20 years of my life. So, according to what the doctor told me my body developed some extra bits on my bone that are now causing these problems. My choices currently are either loosing the ability to walk, getting a prosthetic at 25 which wouldn't be ideal, or best case scenario get surgery to grind these extra bits back to normal. 
What is good about this? Not much I suppose, but at least I managed to call doctors, book appointments and the like. I went to my doctor, got x-rays, called an orthopedic, and soo I'll be going there to see what to do about it. Writing it down it doesn't sound so impressive, rather it seems quite pathetic celebrating for stuff like this. However I feel like up to some months ago I would have let endured the pain and done nothing about it (which is exactly what I did for over a year now with this hip pain). So yay for that I guess.

I've been trying to talk to more people too, with various degrees of success. That can range from pretty awful to "hey at least I was able to!". It's difficult. I am supposed to just enjoy getting to know new people, but in reality I need to put out a constant effort to be able to do that. I need to force myself to keep texting, to keep setting things up, and in the rare occasions I do meet someone I have to keep my thoughts at bay so I don't have a total meltdown in front of a poor stranger that managed to get paired up with me. 
But I am forcing myself, which I guess is kind of the point of all this. Honestly I do not feel too positive about this, I feel like all that I am doing will amount to nothing, that it's pointless and I won't achieve anything. The weird thing with thinking this is that I don't have an objective, other than not isolating myself even more from everyone else so I shouldn't judge myself according to some standard that I'm not even aware of.

As I wrote this I noticed how much I felt like I was "forcing" myself to do this and that. I think it's good because it means I'm pushing myself out of my comfort zone, but at the same time it also feels like I'm setting myself up for failure: the moment I am no longer able to sustain all this I will go back to doing what I was before, like a spring going back to its usual form once you stop pulling it. I hope to get deformed enough that when that inevitably happens I will at least be a little different.

Finally I wanted to talk about something that happened today, and the main reason I wanted to write here in the first place. In my last entry, [Vegan Burgers](vegan-burgers), I talked how I managed to get the courage to book an appointment with a therapist, or rather how I managed to ask my doctor to do that with the national health service. After I got the strength to call the number I was given, I was met with the utter incompetence of people that didn't even know what to do. I was told my doctor messed up, and that I was booked for a visit with a psychiatrist rather than a therapist. They warned me that the first visit would be in over 5 months, but who cared, it would still be better than nothing. I was told someone would get in contact with me in a few hours. That didn't happen. It didn't happen after two days nor a week. Today after two weeks I was called again: "Hello, would you be ok with coming here and getting your folder filled up? A slot is available on the 6th of December". This is over 6 months from now. And of course they managed to call me as I was surrounded by people. Of course I didn't tell anyone about this, because why would I? It would only lead to pointless questions, to being told that I should be happy that I'm young and that I can do whatever I want, that I'm not allowed to feel any other way.
And so I snapped back into place, I told them I didn't need that any longer, and that I was looking somewhere else. That is true, at least a little bit: having to wait six months between appointments doesn't sound ideal. But at the same time I can't really afford it so I can't afford to get too picky.
I am really ashamed of this, all the work I did to get this appointment, all the fears for the phone calls, stumbling to get the words out while the nurse didn't even understand why I called, all wasted because I didn't have the time to get ready to answer a phone call I should have gotten two weeks prior.

Well, this is the end of this entry. No moral, or anything like that. Just some stories, and I even managed to finish with a pretty big screw up.